# dynamic_WWTP_model_plus_LCA
This repository contains a Jupyter notebook that generates life cycle assessment (LCA) results (both classic and dynamic results), from the output of the Eindhoven wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) dynamic model.

The notebook's filename is dynamicModellingPlusLCA_notebook.ipynb. It is accompanied by a Python script that contains two functions. Most parts of both can be viewed by clicking on them, although I observed that some errors in displaying the layout of the notebook occur when GitHub displays the files (more specifically: sub- and superscripts, and Latex math environments are not always displayed correctly). The notebook is well documented and provided with clarifications for the interested reader. The whole repository is also available to download. An alterative way of viewing the notebook: Go to this link: https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/. Fill in this url: https://github.com/TomLauriks/dynamic_WWTP_model_plus_LCA/blob/master/dynamicModellingPlusLCA_notebook.ipynb. Click Go! The layout in the latter option is a bit nicer, but the same displaying errors occur.

If one intends to download the repository, note that the map structure is the one like it is defined in the notebook. The map "results" is used to write out all generated plots. The map "data" and its submaps contain the input data the notebook requires. One short WWTP model simulation data set, dynamic_to323days.txt, is provided that could be used for generating results with the notebook (however, some files needed for execution of the notebook could not be provided, see further). It is shorter than the ones I used for scenario analysis, but can easily be downloaded as a zip. The full simulation results are also available, but in my Google drive account since they are too large to upload here (and I do not recommend using Github's large file storage "service"!): https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B7I232_L4j1-SEhuSkxSMzdSM0E. The map "figures" contains the figure displayed in the notebook. The map "misc" contains the data that is used in one of the appendices. Starting instruction can be found in the section "Roadmap through this notebook". To download: Click "clone or download", click "download as zip". 

A remark about the maturity of coupling LCA to dynamic modelling is at its place. This notebook is the practical work that accompanied my master thesis, which can also be found in this repository. The primary goal of my thesis was to investigate whether or not dynamic LCA is useful. As a consequence, the LCA part was not as thorough as an LCA should be. One major reason for this, is that the WWTP model is not intended to be coupled to an LCA and as is to be expected, some important data that should be included into the LCA are not part of the modelling results. In my opinion, my thesis demonstrates that dynamic LCA can be very useful. However, improvements are needed in order to get good LCA results from dynamic WWTP modelling. Please keep that in mind when analysing this notebook.

Besides, it has to be noted that currently no license is provided, implying that this repository falls under exclusive copyright restrictions. The reason for this, is that the notebook uses some results obtained through the commercial software SimaPro. This is also the reason that 2 data files (generated with SimaPro) needed for the notebook execution are not provided. 

Finally, special thanks goes to Waterschap De Dommel (https://www.dommel.nl/index.html), the governing body of the Eindhoven WWTP. They finance the research doctorate of my tutor, ir. Chaïm De Mulder, and thus partially also my thesis. In particular Tony Flameling has to be mentioned, who was kind enough to answer the questions I had regarding the Eindhoven WWTP.
